all right hello and welcome everyone
it's great to see you all here um this
is my first in-person conference in the
last 18 months and raise your hand if
this is your first
in person conference in the last year or
so something like that fantastic
i would say the majority of the audience
here and
the last time that i was here at this
location
i was watching a mini rodeo
and riding a ferris wheel and i hope
today will be just as fun for for all of
us um so and i think back to two years
ago
we would never no one in this audience
would have ever predicted i don't think
that we would be doing saster
outside at a county fairground
and you know life is all about surprises
and it's what you do
with those surprises and with those
twists and turns in the road and how you
drive momentum and accelerate coming out
of those changes and use those changes
to accelerate you that define who you
are as a leader
and who you are as a company
so i'm karen peacock i'm the ceo of
intercom intercom is the customer
communications platform and we help
companies connect with their customers
build strong relationships drive growth
and scale
we help sales teams marketing teams
support teams at companies like amazon
lift atlassian shopify and about 25 000
other customers as well and before
intercom
i was the svp of small business at
intuit
and add into it i helped to build one of
the world's largest sas product lines at
2.5 billion dollars in revenue i'm also
on the board of dropbox so these
experiences and more that have taught me
everything that i know today and what i
want to share with you is my top ways
and top advice for you for helping you
find that next gear how do you
accelerate how do you shift to that next
year
i think a good analogy
is driving a race car i've never been a
race car driver though you know have
gotten to do it on little mock courses
and i hope some of you have uh at times
too but the key when you're driving a
race car is how you handle the curves
and if you're a race car driver and
you're going and you're going into a
curve and you kind of slow down into the
curve and you wait until you fully get
out of the curve and when you're just
going to be pointed straight ahead then
you step on the accelerator you will
have lost
way too much momentum
you will never win the race at that
point the key is to accelerate at the
right point in the curve and that is at
the apex of the curve the curviest point
of the curve that is when you hit the
gas that is when you accelerate and win
the race
so today if you are here and your
business is kind of hitting some bumps
in the road um and a curve this talk is
for you to figure out how to navigate
through that
today if your business is flying this
talk is also for you because it's about
helping you figure out how to avoid the
curves that you can avoid and how to
make the most of the ones that you can
this is relevant today whether you're 1
million in revenue 100 million or a
billion
overall lessons apply
and so in general when you're driving
you know when you're about to hit a
corner so the question is in your
business how do you know when you're
approaching a corner and the first key
thing here that i'm going to talk about
is you have to know your business
and if you know your business
i'm sure everyone here today knows the
revenue of their business and you know
the growth of your business and you have
to go
much much deeper than that
because the averages those high level
numbers about your business
they hide the insights
now for example when jeff bezos walks
into a bar with a hundred people
the average net worth
per person in that bar
is now over a billion dollars
is that useful no that average just
completely hid all of the insights
underneath that and so what you want to
go is go beneath the surface and i'm
going to tell you a story about how we
did that at intercom and the surprises
that we found and how we use that to
accelerate
just a minute and before we get into
that just want to set some baseline
metrics for you guys
i'm sure everybody here knows their
annual recurring revenue or arr or
monthly recurring revenue that top level
revenue number but the other two metrics
that are just as critical in fact
arguably more critical to know are your
revenue health specifically your gross
revenue retention or grr and your net
revenue retention or nrr
and i'll tell you what those are if
you're not familiar with them so your
gross revenue retention is a revenue
that you have at the beginning of the
period
minus the revenue that you lose from
customers who leave you during that
period
minus the revenue that you lose from
customers who spend a little bit less
with you at the end of the period versus
the beginning and that ratio is your
gross revenue retention and by
definition the maximum it can ever be is
100 and no companies at 100 so don't
worry if you're not
next key metric is your net revenue
retention which is exactly like your
gross revenue retention except that you
get to add in
credit for all of your expansion and
that is for all of the revenue that you
make from customers now that you had at
the beginning of the period where you've
built your relationship that's your net
revenue retention
now why do these matter
these matter because companies with
strong revenue health with strong net
revenue retention and gross revenue
retention
build themselves beautiful businesses
they tend to look something like this
where you have all of your customers
that you brought in last year and
they're growing with you on net and all
of your customers that you're bringing
with you that you brought in this year
and they're growing with you on net and
then the year after in the year after
the whole thing is this like beautiful
growing business which is what we all
aspire to
and if you don't have strong revenue
retention metrics you have weak revenue
health you end up in a hamster wheel of
a situation just trying to fight it out
for every bit of growth with a linear or
worse declining business and that's why
these revenue health metrics are so
critical they are how you see the turn
in the road that's about to happen to
you before it does it's your crystal
ball
now
you can look at your revenue health
overall and that's good but what's even
more useful is to break that down by
segment and to figure out your arr and
growth and importantly your net revenue
tension gross revenue retention by
segment by product by type of customer
that could be your buyer type could be
your size of customer your geography of
customer might be your sales motion if
you have a self-serve part of your
business and a sales led part of your
business might be your acquisition
channel break your business down into
all of the ways that you see your
customers having different experiences
and get the insights there and i'll tell
you the story
of intercom and when we did this we'd
always done a pretty good job of
understanding our total revenue total
revenue growth our revenue health at an
aggregate level but it wasn't until a
few years ago that we actually took that
and broke that down by product and by
customer segment and what we realized
when we did that was that we had one
product that we're actually very excited
about and was growing well that had much
weaker revenue health metrics than the
rest of our business and in fact the
strength of our other products was
hiding the weakness there and similarly
on the customer segment side we had one
customer segment where the revenue
health wasn't nearly as strong as for
all of the other segments and those
health these segments were covering up
for the segment that wasn't as strong
and so that gave us a huge insight we
focused on that product and that segment
made improvements to the product to the
overall end-to-end customer experience
to the go to market to the pricing and
packaging focused and we're able to
significantly improve the health of
those businesses such that the entire
company accelerated coming out of that
that is the power of this
this
at a high level just to summarize
you want to look beyond the averages for
insights you want to first focus on the
products and segments with strong
revenue health double down there
and second you want to figure out
fix and then get out fix or get out of
the parts of your business that are a
leaky bucket
and at a minimum you want to make sure
that those do not become an increasing
percent of your business because if
those start to grow faster than your
other products and become a larger and
larger part of your business that is
going to erode the entire the health of
your entire business and you're going to
move from that beautiful chart you saw
on the left side of like ever increasing
prosperity to the one on the right side
of like hamster wheel so you gotta fix
or get out of the places that aren't
working for you and this this is
literally
a message
from your future self
from two years from now coming back and
telling you today
segment the business figure out what
parts are working and what isn't this is
your crystal ball and how you figure out
um how to drive a stronger and stronger
business
now some specific benchmarks that you
can aim for or aim to beat just so you
have them in mind and i'll credit jason
lemkin here and for those who are here
anyone who's not following jason i would
encourage you to follow him on twitter
his some of the things that
we've seen in terms of benchmarks are
for enterprise companies so b2b sas
companies selling to the enterprise you
want to have a net revenue retention of
120 or above oftentimes the best
companies are way way above this if
you're selling to mid market 110 or
above small business 100 or above and
for consumer it can really vary but the
point is know these for your business
know these for your segments
and
figure out your insights from there
great so that's the first key thing that
i want to talk about
the second theme for us that i want to
talk about today
is that you have to know your customers
your customers for your whole life as a
company are your north star if you are
ever not sure what to do
spend time with your customers
so forrester put together a really nice
infographic just kind of laying out how
technology shifts have happened over
time starting in 1900 of the age of
manufacturing moving to the age of
distribution the age of information and
for the last 10 years plus the age of
the customer and we're very much in the
heart of that today and every one of you
knows that and is a part of that and
that's what sas businesses are all about
serving the customer winning the
customer over and over again in order to
do that you have to get to know your
customers deeply this is spending time
with your customers getting to know them
one-on-one understanding their hopes
their fears and watching them use your
product watching them use all the other
things in their business too seeing how
those things do or don't connect
together seeing their pain and getting
to work through it firsthand with them
and importantly watching them which
leads me to my next big takeaway you
have to watch what your customers do
not what they say
and i'll share with you a particular
example that was very painful for me at
the time but it has like uh just
emblazoned this in in my uh who i am as
a leader today um and that was back a
number of years ago um when i was at
intuit one of my early jobs there was as
the head of product for quickbooks and i
was so excited to do that job and so i
went out and spent time with customers
and
asked them
what they wanted and needed what did
they most love about quickbooks what did
they most hate about it what did they
wish for and asked if there was just one
thing one thing that you could have and
it was anything in quickbooks what would
you most wish for it to do
and they said
budgeting
budgeting is a thing that we most want
and we said fantastic we would love to
build you an amazing budgeting tool and
so
we started doing mock-ups and prototypes
and brought customers in and they were
using our our budgeting and when they
told us yes this is a great budgeting
tool
we built it we shipped it and you know
what happened
nobody used it
how come nobody used it that's exactly
the number one said thing they said they
wanted so how come they weren't using it
and so we went back to the north star of
our customers
and we watched them
and what we saw was that there was no
moment in the day that a small business
customer actually sat down and did
budgeting
budgeting is tomorrow's problem never
something that they actually spent time
on
so why were they asking for budgeting
what was the real thing going on there
what we what we found out as we watched
our customers more is that they did
spend a lot of time looking either
online or physically at bills they had
to pay and invoices that they were
hoping to receive in from customers and
trying to match the two and what we
realized was that their key problem was
i can't pay my bills
and so our aha was you must fall in love
with the problem not the solution
we had fallen in love with the solution
idea of budgeting
the problem was i can't pay my bills
and when we focus on that problem i
can't pay my bills we built a simple
cash management solution and a lending
marketplace that was soon used by
hundreds of thousands of small
businesses and so my takeaway here and i
share this with you all fall in love
with your customers problem not the
solution
so that's the second key thing really
focusing on your customers is your true
north falling in love with the problem
not the solution
now
the next thing that i want to talk about
today
is the hardest thing in software that
nobody really talks about or thinks
about upfront
when you're starting your company or
when you're in your early stages you're
kind of thinking about how do i create a
great product how do i really understand
my customers and and solve their
problems right we just talked about that
or you think about how do i build a
great team how do i hire all the right
people who can do even so much more than
i could possibly imagine who can really
inspire our customers and build
something incredible
what you do not think about upfront
is pricing and packaging typically right
so this is a little audience
participation raise your hand if you
think today that your pricing for your
product or service is excellent
raise your hand
okay we've got one person
one person which is fantastic and she's
encouraging other people too at her
company so one company out of you know
however many this is many hundreds
um
how many of you think your pricing could
be better raise your hand if you think
your pricing could be better yeah it's
pretty much everyone here thinks their
pricing could be better
and that is because getting your pricing
and packaging right is hard to do
and the fundamental principle that i
would encourage you to think about as
you're doing this is that you want to
align your price to value
and what this means is spending time
with customers and deeply understanding
the value that your product is providing
and then figuring out how to price
accordingly so for customers who are
getting more value they'll be willing to
pay a higher price for customers who are
getting less value make sure you're not
charging them too much and you need to
importantly make sure that the price
you're charging is always less than the
value that a customer is getting
so this is a principle that i use in
general in pricing and i think you can
as well
however it's still hard
so at intercom
when we started we had a very simple
pricing metric
and we called it total people records
and that basically meant that we charged
customers based on the number of
contacts that they had in the intercom
database which was your total people
records
which was perfectly fine and good way to
start and it served us well at first and
then it stopped working well
and it stopped working well for us for
two reasons the first of which is
customers found it hard to predict
and no one wants pricing that's hard to
predict and customers also found it
to be not very differentiated and we
ended up in a place where we had some
customers who are using the intercom
product really deeply and really well
and we're getting tremendous value and
where we weren't actually charging them
very much and where they would have been
fine to pay significantly more because
they were getting many many many times
the value so there are some customers
that we were underpriced for and then
there were some customers that we were
overpriced for and that is where
um there were smaller companies or using
the product less where our pricing was
actually more than the value that
they're getting and that's obviously not
a place that you want to be in at all
and so we did an overhaul start from
scratch go back to the principal
really develop that principle of
aligning price to value and came up with
a pyramid and i share this pyramid with
you so it can be helpful for you in your
pricing and packaging going forward
first
layer and foundation of the pyramid is
your pricing metrics and the key here is
to think about value
what is it that drives value for your
customers
so it could be things like the number of
seats of your product it could be the
amount of storage in your product the
amount of api calls whatever it is think
about what drives value
and use this as your pricing metric if
you think about like a movie theater for
example
you walk into a movie theater how do you
expect to be charged you expect to pay
per seat right because you get value
based on the number of people who get to
see the movie
if a movie theater did pricing based on
height
well that is a metric
that wouldn't make any sense at all
because it doesn't drive anything about
the value that a customer gets and by
the way it piss off all the tall people
right
so you want to figure out your pricing
metrics that align to the value that you
provide your customers and this is
something that you don't want to change
often this is not something that like
every year a new pricing metric this is
like think about it deeply and set it
out and have it for years
next key layer here is packaging and
your packaging is how you take what you
build
and turn it into what you sell
and what i like to think about here is
your customer segments and you want
every customer to be clear
for me
what is the package or the solution that
is right for me so you want to design
your packaging based on your customer
segments to figure out the key things
that they need and you can have
different levels for your packaging this
is something you also don't want to
change very often but you can change it
a little more often than your pricing
metrics when you've got a new product or
a new add-on or a new customer segment
that you're going after that's a great
time to re-look at your packaging
and the third key piece of this
is your price this is the actual
dollar value or local currency value
that you're
charging
so what you want to do here is you want
to
align your price to value by customer
segment
so that's our key theme for the third
area align that price to value by
customer segment and i would also say
pricing and packaging is something
that's never done
we've done a lot of work on this at
intercom and there's still more that we
think we can do and more that we want to
to continue to improve so make sure you
spend some ongoing time with customers
thinking about the value that you
provide and using that to keep getting
better and better at your pricing and
packaging
all right the fourth and final theme
that i want to talk about with you guys
today is designing your end-to-end
customer experience
we talked about this being the age of
the customer
and you know while this started with b2c
companies and and consumers having these
high expectations
every single one of your b2b buyers is a
consumer in all of the other parts of
their life and so
companies expect consumer grade
experiences consumers of course expect
it and all of your b2b buyers expect
that as well
and a good litmus test that i like to
think about in terms of the end-to-end
customer experience is
if your friend had this experience how
would you feel about it
if you would feel
proud or happy terrific
put a you know check mark in the win
column for that particular part of your
customer experience and keep testing it
because every customer will have a
little bit different experience
if you look at that and you think oh you
know
really not so pleased about this then
you've got work to do and that is
totally fine and the key is to think
about it holistically from an end to end
way
and i always like to start with a
customer
so start with a customer think about
what matters most to them and what their
experience is with you and think about
lots of different types of customers
think about it from the moment when they
first hear about your company and your
product in your brand maybe it's from a
friend or a peer maybe it's through some
of your marketing maybe it's through an
analyst think about how do they first
learn about you and what are the
expectations that they're starting to
get set what is the promise that you're
making when they first come to your
website and they learn about who you are
and what you can do what are they hoping
for what are you promising them you
could do if you have a sales process and
they're talking to people on your sales
team what's your sales team telling them
and promising them and then how do you
make sure that you're delivering on that
when they first start using your product
or service what's that initial
experience
how did how quickly did that get do they
get that first moment of like wow and
first moment of huge value and what's
their ongoing experience with you like
what are they what happens when they
have a problem
who do they reach out to what's the
experience there how do you set them up
for success and then how do you get them
building
a stronger and stronger relationship
with you and get you able to deliver
more and more value to them and they're
doing more and more with you over time
and this is the flywheel that great
companies and great entrepreneurs aim
for
and we talked earlier about
retention and how important that is so
big question is how do you drive strong
retention right
well the way you drive strong customer
retention
is to build strong customer
relationships
in a delightful customer experience
and do that in a way that scales
and this is something we are super
passionate about at intercom and that we
have dedicated ourselves and our whole
products to helping companies build
personalized in context experiences that
are also omni-channel and able to touch
customers everywhere they want to be
touched everywhere
that came out strange
able to work with customers everywhere
those customers are
and so that means things like when a
customer comes to your website having a
personalized way of interacting with
that customer when a customer first
starts using your product having
personalized onboarding i don't mean
like an individual i don't mean like a
one size fits all here are the five
steps to take i mean based on who you
are what you have done what you haven't
done in the product what you've checked
out on the website a personalized
experience for you that is great and
then an ongoing way to get help to find
out about new things and to succeed
within the product or wherever you are
in an omni-channel way
and what we find is that when companies
do this
they see tremendous results they see 82
on average higher conversion when they
engage with prospects on their website
and from engaging with their pro their
customers actually in product in the
application they see three to four times
the engagement rate of email this is not
like ten percent better or even fifty
percent better that's like three to four
x that is huge and the reason it is it's
just it's actually very logical when you
reach out to a customer when they're
already thinking about you already
working in your product and suggest
something helpful for them to do as a
next step or to learn more about of
course they're much more likely to
engage with you than if you send them an
email six hours later or three days
later when they're not even thinking
about you at all
so really today
spam email
sent out of context in non-personalized
way
what do you do with it like i just go
through and i clean it all out and i
look for products that can help me clean
that out better and better so outgoing
email like that
voice calls
really are a thing of the past things
like
when you asking your customers to fill
out forms
to tell you about who they are that's a
thing of the past
gone are the days where you can expect
your customers to submit some kind of
support question wait for some unbeknow
like unknown period of time get an email
back when they're already doing
something else which by the way says do
not reply to this like do not reply to
this i'm your customer i want a
relationship here and so what we find is
that when companies have this kind of
in-context personalized relationship
with customers and communicate to them
where they want to whether that's in
product or outside
they see tremendous results and i'll
give you a few examples
these are a few of our customers but the
point is these are companies who are
doing the end to end customer experience
really well so atlassian for example
does
on website engagement and in-app help
and support and what they find is doing
that they've been able to get to a less
than three minute first response time
and that is their fastest channel to
resolve issues
unity using on-site
engagement in-app engagement in-app
messaging omni-channel support has been
able to increase their conversion rates
by 45 percent and then now see almost a
third of their retention coming from
real-time messaging and you remember
that chart of like that great big
growing business and the difference
between that and the kind of like flat
hamster wheel of a business like they're
attributing 32 of that difference to
real-time messaging
notion started doing this real-time
in-app work just for support and
oftentimes that's a great way to start
like pick an area whether it's on sales
or marketing or support try it out and
what they saw is it really worked it
drove significant um
improvements to their customer
experience and they started to roll it
out then across their sales teams their
marketing teams in addition to their
support and they've seen higher customer
attention satisfaction and overall
business growth and the key to all of
this is is that customers expect
consumer grade experiences
we all here expect consumer grade
experiences and that is a wonderful
thing both for us as consumers but also
for us as as company leaders and product
leaders because it gives us a high bar
to shoot for and drives inspiration and
breakthrough thinking
and what it drives is the aha that
personalized in context scalable
experiences win
and when your customers win you win
so now i'm going to summarize everything
that we just talked about
for the last few minutes into one slide
one slide to rule them all
so
number one you need to know your
business you want to go beyond the
averages dig in to understand the
insights there understand your revenue
health by segment
you have to spend time deeply with your
customers watching what they do not just
what they say and fall in love with the
problem not the solution
to figure out your pricing which isn't
easy by aligning your price to value by
customer segment and really think deeply
about designing your end-to-end
experience
make sure it's personalized it's in
context it's scalable
these kind of experiences win
so hope this has been helpful for you
today we write a lot at intercom we like
to really give back to the community
because we've learned hard lessons along
the way you can find more at
intercom.com and download our free
growth handbook as well as check out our
scale blog and scale podcast where we
share this type of thing and many more
learning and insights you can also
follow me on twitter at karenpeacock
and i want to thank you and wish you all
the best
thanks everyone
[Music]
you